Add blog from Hendrik (& CAM) on Spyder 6 remote development (#35)
spyder-ide/spyder-website: src/routes/blog/spyder-6-remote-development/+page.md

---
title: The inside scoop on Spyder 6's new remote development platform
author:
  - hlouzada

>   - ccordoba12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think I should be a co-author in this one (my writing contribution is fairly small).

Author: Seems to me like you helped a lot, but ultimately up to you :)

  - camgerlach
tags: Feature, Spyder6
category: Releases
pub_date: 2024-11-29
summary: Spyder 6 includes a brand new remote development platform, building the foundations for enabling Spyder to easily leverage the power and data of remote desktops, servers, clusters and the cloud from anywhere! Hendrik Louzada, the lead developer behind this new backend, shares the details on how it all works, how he implemented it and his experiences doing so, and what's next for remote development in Spyder 6.1!
---

![Graphic with the Spyder icon connected to a network, with the words Easy Remote Execution is available now](hero.png)

> The foundations of Spyder's new remote development platform are available now in Spyder 6.0, with more features to come in 6.1 and beyond!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The foundations of Spyder's new remote development architecture are available now in Spyder 6.0, with more features to come in 6.1 and beyond!
```

`platform` sounds a bit strange to me, given that Spyder is already an application.

Author: Okay, sure. I just thought that plataform is what we'd been a calling it a lot in user facing contexts and sounds somewhat more impactful in terms of user-facing features

> The goal is to make it easy for you to host their files, data and computations on remote desktops, clusters, servers and the cloud while being able to use Spyder just like you normally would locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to make it easy for you to host your files, data and computations on remote desktops, clusters, servers and the cloud while being able to use Spyder locally.
```

* It should be `your files` if we're talking of `you` before.
* The end of this sentence seems unnecessarily complex to me.

Author: Yeah editing mistake

> Alongside built-in backend and client-server components, Spyder 6.0 features a new remote connection manager that allows you to connect to any machine with a SSH server, no prior installation or configuration needed, and automatically set up and use a remote Python environment  on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spyder 6.0 features a new remote connection manager that allows you to connect to any machine with a SSH server, no prior installation or configuration needed, and automatically set up and use a remote Python environment  on the host.
```

This sentence is very good, but the opening part seems unnecessary to me.

It also features graphical status checking and reporting, host configuration management, and more.

> In addition, it brings a new `Consoles` submenu allowing you to connect to any remote environment with one click, launch a console and run your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, it brings a new `Consoles` submenu allowing you to connect to any remote server with one click, launch a console and run your code.
```

To match the text in Spyder's UI (and video below) and also not to confuse users about conda envs.

Author: I included it since technically they are connecting to a specific Conda environment on the remote, but in any case I would suggest the term *remote host* instead, as I thought that's the term we agreed to use for this and doesn't sound out of place when referring to something that's not always thought of as a server, e.g. workstation, cluster, cloud desktop, etc

I'd also suggest a few other tweaks to my original verbiage to clarify that the console gets launched as part of the "one click" rather than being a separate step, which the verbiage change may also otherwise accentuate.

```suggestion
In addition, it brings a new `Consoles` submenu allowing you to connect to any remote host and launch a console with one click.
```

> You can also stop code execution as well as restart remove kernels from right within Spyder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also stop code execution as well as restart remote kernels from within Spyder.
```

* Typo.
* `right` makes the sentence harder for me to read as a non-native speaker.

<video controls>
  <source src="remote-console-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  <track kind="captions">
  Sorry, your browser doesn’t support HTML5 video. Download the <a href="screencast.mp4">MP4 file</a>
</video>

> We're excited to have our newest core developer, Hendrik Louzada, and our team share with you their insights and perspectives on Spyder's new remote development platform introduced in Spyder 6!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to have our newest core developer, Hendrik Louzada, and our team share with you their insights and perspectives on Spyder's new remote development architecture introduced in Spyder 6!
```

To go with my suggestion above.

Author: ```suggestion
We're excited to have our newest core developer, Hendrik Louzada, share with you his insights and perspectives on Spyder 6's new remote development architecture he helped implement!
```

* If its really going to be all about him (since you took yourself off of it and also suggested rephrasing the first part in first person), modify this accordingly (and along with your other changes)
* Also simplify and improve the phrasing of the last clause and clarify Hendrik's role therein

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

> Join us as Hendrik shares how he got started with Spyder and the project, how the new achetecture is implemented under the hood, what challenges we faced and what he learned from them, and what's next for Spyder 6.1.0!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Join us as Hendrik shares how he got started with Spyder and the project, how the new achetecture is implemented under the hood, what challenges he faced and what he learned from them, and what's next for Spyder 6.1.0!
```

Since everything is about Hendrick, I think this should be a `he`, right?

Author: Okay, sure

## How'd you find out about Spyder and why'd you join the project?

> Hendrick first started to work on Spyder around three years ago, developing a series of plugins to control remote magnetic resonance equipment (such as MRI machines) directly in the IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Hendrick*: I first started to work on Spyder around three years ago, developing a series of plugins to control remote magnetic resonance equipment (such as MRI machines) directly in the IDE.
```

To make it clear that this is an interview (it'd work really well with the second to last section).

Author: I defintely thought about it but felt uncomfortable doing so, at least as it was phrased in the outline document it was written in a biographical style of someone speaking about him rather than in his own voice, so I didn't want to put words in his mouth.

@hlouzada , up to you if you're okay with us using first person for this 

And since its just Hendrick and myself here, is explicitly stated to be him answering the questions just above and the question is directly addressed to him who answers in the first person, there's no need for extra formality here. That would be used if it was a back and forth conversation and _both_ parties were labeled this why, as opposed to already-structured question headings directed at the aforenamed subject and the prose text entirely his. Plus, gives us more leeway overall since much of this isn't necessarily spoken directly by him.

```suggestion
I first started to work on Spyder around three years ago, developing a series of plugins to control remote magnetic resonance equipment (such as MRI machines) directly in the IDE.
```

> As part of that project, he made multiple upstream contributions to Spyder itself to improve the Language Server Protocol support (LSP, the architecture that powers Spyder's code completion, introspection, analysis and formatting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of that project, I made several upstream contributions to Spyder itself to improve the Language Server Protocol support (LSP, the architecture that powers Spyder's code completion, introspection, analysis and formatting).
```

Before starting with us, Hendrick had submitted two PRs to Spyder.

Author: Which technically _is_ "multiple" 😉

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

> In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) (CZI) [EOSS 5 grant](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to implement a new remote development platform and features in Spyder to allow users to develop and run code in remote desktops, servers, clusters and cloud machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) (CZI) [grant](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to implement a new remote development architecture and features in Spyder to allow users to develop and run code in remote servers and cloud machines.
```

* Most people don't know what `EOSS 5` means, so it's unnecessary info.
* Remove some repeated text from the introduction.

Author: It is widely expected if not outright required practice (in US academia, at the very least) for grantees to cite the specific grant number, or failing that the name of the specific grant program(s) from which they received funds when publishing about them, particularly when one of the primary goals of said publication is to fulfill the requirements of the grantor and document the outcomes of the grant.

The actual relevant audience this is directed at is the grantor, and in case this is a reference for the reader to follow if interested (via the convenient link) rather than direct information.

```suggestion
In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) (CZI) [EOSS 5 grant](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to implement a new remote development architecture and features in Spyder to allow users to develop and run code in remote servers and cloud machines.
```

We could also write out the full name:

```suggestion
In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) Essential Open Source Software for Science [Cycle 5 grant](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to implement a new remote development architecture and features in Spyder to allow users to develop and run code in remote servers and cloud machines.
```

> After a six-month search by Spyder lead maintainer Carlos Cordoba to find the right candidate to engineer the backend and network architecture for this project, he found Hendrik, who joined the core development team near the end of 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a six-month search by Spyder lead maintainer Carlos Cordoba to find the right candidate to engineer the backend and network architecture for this project, he found me, so I joined the core development team near the end of 2023.
```

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

> ![New remote connection manager dialog in Spyder listing the configurable settings for a new remote host](remote-connection-manager-new.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think this is the right place for this picture (see below).

Author: The image is already directly above the paragraph (and section) it most directly relates to, so there's not really an issue—in many news articles, images often if not typically _precede_ their relevant headings, as is the case here.

By contrast, there are several problems with moving it:

   * The primary purpose of the images in a personal interview post as in most blog posts/articles of this nature, (as opposed to a explanatory, how-to, tutorial, etc. post) are to break up a wall of text, provide provide visual interest and offer a background illustration of the topic, rather than to provide critical, immediately relevant descriptive information.
   * Moving that below would break the consistent pattern of an image after each (non-ending) section and cram two images only a short paragraph apart while leaving a larger wall of text between
   * Furthermore, it leads the reader to question why that specific paragraph/section gets special explanatory treatment and not the rest, and disrupts the feel of an interview (focused on a person) as opposed to a motivated feature how-to (focused just on the feature)
   * And it leads the reader to expect that other images will be directly below the paragraph it most relates to, which is not the case

Reviewer: CAM, the main problem I found with this image's positioning is that it makes no sense with the _previous_ text. You're reading about the CZI grant we received and then you're "greeted" by an image that has no relation to that.

Now, about what you said:

> The primary purpose of the images in a personal interview post as in most blog posts/articles of this nature, (as opposed to a explanatory, how-to, tutorial, etc. post) are to break up a wall of text, provide provide visual interest and offer a background illustration of the topic, rather than to provide critical, immediately relevant descriptive information.

There's an image and a video before, so not everything is a wall of text up to this point.

> Moving that below would break the consistent pattern of an image after each (non-ending) section and cram two images only a short paragraph apart while leaving a larger wall of text between

I think it doesn't matter breaking a pattern if the image makes no sense with the text (plus, the final two sections have no accompanying images).

> Furthermore, it leads the reader to question why that specific paragraph/section gets special explanatory treatment and not the rest, and disrupts the feel of an interview (focused on a person) as opposed to a motivated feature how-to (focused just on the feature)

The blog post is already a mix of interview/how-to.

> And it leads the reader to expect that other images will be directly below the paragraph it most relates to, which is not the case

Again, the point is not what it leads to, but what it's connected to before (because you read text in a linear fashion). And as I said, as a reader, that image makes no sense at all in its current position.

----

For all these reasons, I strongly suggest to move this image below.

Author: Agreed with @ccordoba12 to add line breaks and a caption to images instead

## How is the new remote development platform implemented?

> The backend, [`spyder-remote-services`](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-remote-services), uses [Jupyter Server](https://jupyter-server.readthedocs.io/) and the [JupyterHub API](https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/rest-api.html), since Spyder is already leverages the Jupyter architecture to manage kernels and run code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Hendrick*: The backend, [`spyder-remote-services`](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-remote-services), uses [Jupyter Server](https://jupyter-server.readthedocs.io/) and the [JupyterHub API](https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/rest-api.html), since Spyder already leverages the Jupyter architecture to manage kernels and run code.
```

Author: See rationale above for why this formal structure wouldn't be necessary or appropriate in this context.

```suggestion
The backend, [`spyder-remote-services`](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-remote-services), uses [Jupyter Server](https://jupyter-server.readthedocs.io/) and the [JupyterHub API](https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/rest-api.html), since Spyder already leverages the Jupyter architecture to manage kernels and run code.
```

We decided to use SSH to communicate with the remote machine, since it's secure and widely used for this purpose.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![New remote connection manager dialog in Spyder listing the configurable settings for a new remote host](remote-connection-manager-new.png)

```

This is a better place to show this dialog because we're talking about SSH connections. But I think we should show the `New connection` page instead, which also mentions SSH in its title (like [this](https://private-user-images.githubusercontent.com/365293/330508225-2fe58f13-f873-4ba6-bdef-ab202272ee32.png?jwt=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJnaXRodWIuY29tIiwiYXVkIjoicmF3LmdpdGh1YnVzZXJjb250ZW50LmNvbSIsImtleSI6ImtleTUiLCJleHAiOjE3MzI3NjAyODYsIm5iZiI6MTczMjc1OTk4NiwicGF0aCI6Ii8zNjUyOTMvMzMwNTA4MjI1LTJmZTU4ZjEzLWY4NzMtNGJhNi1iZGVmLWFiMjAyMjcyZWUzMi5wbmc_WC1BbXotQWxnb3JpdGhtPUFXUzQtSE1BQy1TSEEyNTYmWC1BbXotQ3JlZGVudGlhbD1BS0lBVkNPRFlMU0E1M1BRSzRaQSUyRjIwMjQxMTI4JTJGdXMtZWFzdC0xJTJGczMlMkZhd3M0X3JlcXVlc3QmWC1BbXotRGF0ZT0yMDI0MTEyOFQwMjEzMDZaJlgtQW16LUV4cGlyZXM9MzAwJlgtQW16LVNpZ25hdHVyZT04OTE3ZGUzYjY1Y2IzNzIzMTgyOWRmMmUwYjkwYTEyMDg5NDQ4OTQyZTMwMTExOGE3MGRmNzNlZTFlNDRhMWU5JlgtQW16LVNpZ25lZEhlYWRlcnM9aG9zdCJ9.OZ1Htz6iTNR-Rq-blIDFFTDSypWLhda0IywwyWZiPTU)).

Author: I can definitely swap the image if it makes more sense, but the direct URLs aren't working for me cause they are too old or due to some permissions issue (as it didn't work for me before when I went to the PRs); either let me know on what comment the image is in and what image is it so I can download it from there, or download it and post it again here or elsewhere.

And see above comment why the current position isn't an issue while moving it would be.

Author: Just FYI, some time ago GitHub added the feature to comment directly on a file for things that relate to the file itself rather than e.g. its position in a document (so its easier to find and it e.g. sticks around until it is changed or resolved, rather than disappears if the position or injection changes).

Reviewer: ![connection](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/194adf1f-e7be-4b71-b30d-4fe8c89b6f49)

Author: (Just FYI, since GitHub trims whitespace before and after the changed line(s), so the suggestion region would need to include the prior and following non-whitespace lines to apply correctly)

Author: Screenshot updated

Author: Agreed with @ccordoba12 to add line breaks and a caption to images instead

That project is managed through an internal Spyder plugin, *Remote Client*, which uses the Jupyter API to manage remote Spyder kernels and connect them to Spyder.

> The *Remote Client* [frontend](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22079) and [backend](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21757) was developed as an interface for Spyder to connect and manage the Jupyter Server installed on the remote machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Remote Client* [frontend](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22079) and [backend](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21757) were developed as an interface for Spyder to connect and manage the Jupyter Server installed on the remote machine.
```

Typo?

Author: Yeah editing mistake

> The plugin connects to the machine over SSH, installs the server, and creates SSH tunnels for the exposed server and extra APIs implemented by `spyder-remote-services`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin connects to the machine, installs the server, and creates SSH tunnels for the exposed server and extra APIs implemented by `spyder-remote-services`.
```

We already said that.

> The remote client plugin is currently able to automatically create remote [IPython Consoles](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/current/panes/ipythonconsole.html) on behalf of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, Spyder will be able to automatically create remote [IPython Consoles](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/current/panes/ipythonconsole.html) on behalf of users.
```

I think this creates a better connection to the previous sentence, which makes the text flow easier.

Author: Minor wording tweak to be more idiomatic

```suggestion
Once that's complete, Spyder will be able to automatically create remote [IPython Consoles](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/current/panes/ipythonconsole.html) on behalf of users.
```

Furthermore, you can now stop remote computations and restart remote kernels, which was not possible before.

![Spyder consoles menu listing remote as well as local Python environments to open](remote-console-menu.png)

## What challenges did you face and how'd you overcome them?

> There are a number of Python libraries that implement the SSH protocol, but most of them use the underlying SSH client and server installed by the operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Hendrick*: There are a number of Python libraries that implement the SSH protocol, but most of them use the underlying SSH client and server installed by the operating system.
```

Author: See above for why explicitly adding this would be inappropriate here, given the question is already directly addressed to him

Reviewer: Ok, no problem.

> Unfortunately, the Windows SSH client has a serious issue that prevents tunnels from working correctly, so we needed an implementation that uses the underlying SSH libraries directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, the Windows SSH client has a serious issue that prevents tunnels from working correctly, so I needed to find an implementation that uses the underlying SSH libraries directly instead.
```

* Switch to first person because this was Hendrick's work.
* Improve flow.

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

> After investigating a number of options, the [AsyncSSH project](https://github.com/ronf/asyncssh) was the only one that both meets that requirement and is also robust and well maintained, which we implemented in the PR [spyder-ide/spyder#22223](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22223).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After investigating a number of options, the [AsyncSSH project](https://github.com/ronf/asyncssh) was the only one that both meets that requirement and is also robust and well maintained.
Hence, I implemented tunneling using that library in the pull request [spyder-ide/spyder#22223](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22223).
```

* Last part was not clear, so I broke it into another sentence.
* First person again.
* Remove acronym (PR) that most users probably don't know about.

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

> However, there was still an important problem with AsyncSSH: Spyder uses the Qt framework's event loop for its graphical user interface, which is not async-enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there was still an important problem with AsyncSSH: Spyder uses the Qt toolkit's event loop for its graphical user interface, which is not async-enabled.
```

`framework` doesn't sound right for me.

Author: You can take it up with Qt, jaja, since Qt Framework is [its actual name](https://www.qt.io/product/framework)

Reviewer: Sure, no problem.

> Therefore, we had to write an async API that was flexible enough to be able to call several async functions in a specific event loop, allow for loops to be run concurrently (to avoid blocking the main Qt event loop and causing Spyder's GUI to freeze), and be thread-safe so it can be called from any Qt thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, I had to write an async API that was flexible enough to be able to call several async functions in a specific event loop, allow for loops to be run concurrently (to avoid blocking the main Qt event loop and causing Spyder's GUI to freeze), and be thread-safe so it can be called from any Qt thread.
```

First person.

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

> To cover all those requirements, Hendrick created the [`@AsyncDispatcher` decorator](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/v6.0.0/spyder/api/asyncdispatcher.py#L39) function, which starts a thread to run an async loop, schedules the async function in a specific loop, and returns a future object with the function's result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To cover all those requirements, I created the [`@AsyncDispatcher` decorator](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/v6.0.0/spyder/api/asyncdispatcher.py#L39) function, which starts a thread to run an async loop, schedules the async function in a specific loop, and returns a future object with the function's result.
```

First person.

Author: (Pending Hendrick's approval of changing this all to first person)

Author: Superseded by [@hlouzada 's suggestion](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-website/pull/35/files#r1862517857) which I edited to incorporate these changes as well

> To cover all those requirements, Hendrick created the [`@AsyncDispatcher` decorator](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/v6.0.0/spyder/api/asyncdispatcher.py#L39) function, which starts a thread to run an async loop, schedules the async function in a specific loop, and returns a future object with the function's result.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To cover all those requirements, I created the [`@AsyncDispatcher` decorator](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/v6.0.0/spyder/api/asyncdispatcher.py#L39) function, which starts a thread to run an async loop if needed, schedules the async function in a specific loop, and returns a future object with the async function's result.
```

Author: (Edited to fix a spelling typo and incorporate the agreed first person tweak)

That result is emitted in a Qt signal which is then used by Spyder synchronously to perform other tasks (e.g. check if the server is running).

> ![Spyder remote connection manager, showing a successfully connected host](remote-connection-manager-status.png)

Reviewer: This screenshot is outdated. Please use [this one](https://private-user-images.githubusercontent.com/365293/355528410-d2dd711b-5801-491b-b16e-b1475ab416e2.png?jwt=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJnaXRodWIuY29tIiwiYXVkIjoicmF3LmdpdGh1YnVzZXJjb250ZW50LmNvbSIsImtleSI6ImtleTUiLCJleHAiOjE3MzI3NjE1NDQsIm5iZiI6MTczMjc2MTI0NCwicGF0aCI6Ii8zNjUyOTMvMzU1NTI4NDEwLWQyZGQ3MTFiLTU4MDEtNDkxYi1iMTZlLWIxNDc1YWI0MTZlMi5wbmc_WC1BbXotQWxnb3JpdGhtPUFXUzQtSE1BQy1TSEEyNTYmWC1BbXotQ3JlZGVudGlhbD1BS0lBVkNPRFlMU0E1M1BRSzRaQSUyRjIwMjQxMTI4JTJGdXMtZWFzdC0xJTJGczMlMkZhd3M0X3JlcXVlc3QmWC1BbXotRGF0ZT0yMDI0MTEyOFQwMjM0MDRaJlgtQW16LUV4cGlyZXM9MzAwJlgtQW16LVNpZ25hdHVyZT00ZTMxYzdiMGExYmU3ZjRiOTQzMzk2OGFhMzg3MGQwMzVmMTkwMzg3MTg2MDJjMTJiNDVlZjk1YmE2ZDNlMDQxJlgtQW16LVNpZ25lZEhlYWRlcnM9aG9zdCJ9.6DmFFxujqR2IuKBGzsAV39l6byrJlSR7AZ4t5KkRVz8) instead.

Author: Sure can do but same issue with the link not working; you'll either need to paste the image here, somewhere else or let me know on what post I can find it

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1589ee81-2dde-440a-829a-4fa25319e308)

## What have you learned so far?

> Working on an open source project has provided me with the opportunity to witness how my contributions directly impact users in real time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Hendrick*: Working on an open source project has provided me with the opportunity to witness how my contributions directly impact users in real time.
```

Author: Same issue as before, adding the name again here isn't appropriate since it is a direct question in a heading directed at the already named and identified interview subject rather than a formal back and forth with both parties having their name identified this way

Seeing my work being utilized and appreciated by the Spyder community is very rewarding and motivates me to strive for excellence and dedication.
Additionally, observing individuals dedicated to improving Spyder for many years with a common goal to help the scientific community, and without focusing primarily on profit, is incredibly inspiring.

This project has taught me the importance of adaptability and perseverance.
There were moments with problems too hard to understand by myself, but with the team's support I was able to push through those obstacles, making me more confident and resilient.

I'm very grateful for the opportunity to work on Spyder with such a dedicated and supportive team.
I am excited to apply the lessons learned as we move into the next phases of this project!

## What's next for the project?

> Our plans for the next feature version, [Spyder 6.1.0](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/milestone/134), include adding the necessary APIs to `spyder-remote-services` so it can manipulate the remote file system, and grant Spyder the ability to work with, copy, move and delete remote files and directories right from the easy to use graphical interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our plans for the next feature version, [Spyder 6.1.0](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/milestone/134), include adding the necessary APIs to `spyder-remote-services` so it can manipulate the remote file system, i.e. work with, copy, move and delete remote files and directories from its graphical interface.
```

Simplify wording (it's a bit verbose).

Author: Yeah, in fact I decided to go further and split it to two sentences:

```suggestion
Our plans for the next feature version, [Spyder 6.1.0](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/milestone/134), include adding the necessary APIs to `spyder-remote-services` so it can manipulate the remote file system.
This will allow you to view, copy, move and delete remote files and directories right from Spyder's Files pane.
```

Users will also be able to create and manage local and remote Python environments, so they can work in different scientific and programming projects remotely at the same time.

> Finally, we plan to enable connecting to an already running JupyterHub instance, for situations where the user's school, enterprise or organization already has one set up that they want to work with using Spyder, instead of being locked in to the JupyterLab web interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we plan to enable connecting to an already running JupyterHub instance, for situations where the user's organization already has one set up that they want to work with using Spyder, instead of JupyterLab web interface.
```

* Simplify wording.
* Don't sound negative about JLab.

Author: I actually just removed the JLab reference completely, as it isn't really necessary/important and it makes the sentence a run-on that's overly long and complicated with too many separate clauses/commas.

```suggestion
Finally, we plan to enable connecting to an already running JupyterHub instance, for situations where the user's organization already has one set up that they want to work with using Spyder.
```

> The changes required will be relatively straightforward since instead of talking to our own server for remote development, users will communicate with the existing JupyterHub instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes required will be relatively straightforward since instead of talking to our own server for remote development, users will communicate with the existing JupyterHub one instead.
```

Seems missing?

Author: JupyterHub is the object here; at least in this context it just adds complexity to specifically call out communicating with a JupyterHub _server_ (which I _presume_ is what you intend here, but its potentially confusing) rather than just [the relevant part of] the existing JupyterHub which is the main point here.

Reviewer: > JupyterHub is the object here; at least in this context it just adds complexity to specifically call out communicating with a JupyterHub server (which I presume is what you intend here, but its potentially confusing)

The sentence sounds very weird to me, both as a non-native speaker and a programmer because JupyterHub refers to a lot of things. So I strongly suggest to include my suggestion or rephrase this sentence to make it clear that we're going to communicate to the JupyterHub server

Author: ```suggestion
The changes required will be relatively straightforward since instead of talking to our own server for remote development, users will communicate with the existing JupyterHub instance instead.
```

Author: After @ccordoba12 explained this to me, agreed and modified this to

```suggestion
The changes required will be relatively straightforward since instead of talking to our own server for remote development, users will communicate with the existing JupyterHub instance instead.
```

> We can't wait to bring this features to you soon in the next feature version, coming early next year, and see all the cool things you all end up doing with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can't wait to bring these features to you in our next feature version, coming in the first half of next year, and see all the cool things you all end up doing with them.
```

* Typo
* Simplify wording
* Be more realistic about 6.1 release date (probably May at this point)
